
Yes, a catalogue is a file you create with the translations in it. Message catalogues are usually installed in folders that are organised by "domain" and language. The domain is provided by the application, most often just its name. The language is provided by the user’s environment through one of the environment variables LANGUAGE, LC_ALL, LC_MESSAGES, or LANG, depending on configuration and platform. You write the catalogue in a .po file (plain text, portable) which is compiled into a .mo file ("machine object" file). Look for python utilities pygettext and msgfmt, to help you create your .po file and then compile it into .mo format.

The internationalization example code in the wxPython wiki is, I think, a little over-complicated for our purposes. What seems to work just fine is to add the following five lines of code to logsim.py (change the AddCatalog line to point to whatever you called your .mo file). Their location is important, after app = wx.App() but before the GUI is created.

            import builtins



            app = wx.App()



            # Internationalisation

            builtins._ = wx.GetTranslation

            locale = wx.Locale()

            locale.Init(wx.LANGUAGE_DEFAULT)

            locale.AddCatalogLookupPathPrefix('./locale')

            locale.AddCatalog('gui')



            gui = Gui("Logic Simulator", path, names, devices, network, monitors)

Then set the LANG environment variable as required on the command line, e.g. for French LANG=fr_FR.utf8 ./logsim.py. The app should then run with whatever language you specified on the command line (or set system-wide).
